# Big O Answers

## Answer 1 : $O(N)$

## Answer 2 : $O(N^2)$

## Answer 3 : $O(N^2)$

## Answer 4 : $O(ab)$ 
Where `a` is length of first array and `b` is length of second array. 

## Answer 5 : $O(ab)$
Where `a` is length of first array and `b` is length of second array. 

## Answer 6: $O(N)$

## Answer 7: See explanation

## Answer 8: $O(a*s(log a + log s))$
Where `a` is the length of array and `s` is length of largest string in that array

## Answer 9: $O(2^{log N})$ or $O(N)$
Where `N` is the number of nodes in the Balanced BST.

## Answer 10: $O(\sqrt{N})$

## Answer 11: $O(N)$

## Answer 12: $O(n^2*n!)$

## Answer 13: $O(2^n)$

## Answer 14: $O(2^n)$

---
---
## Explanation 1

This will take O(N) time. The fact that we iterate through the array twice doesn't matter.

---

## Explanation 2

The inner for loop has O(N) iterations and it is called N times. Therefore, the runtime is $O(N^2)$.

Another way we can see this is by inspecting what the "meaning" of the code is. It is printing all pairs (two­
element sequences). There are $O(N^2)$ pairs; therefore, the runtime is $O(N^2)$.

---

## Explanation 3

Array Length is 4 (so i goes 0-3)

i = 0 -> j = 1,2,3 // i = 1 -> j = 2,3 // i = 2 -> j = 3 // i = 3 -> j = no-loop 

So each iteration of `i` goes through --> `N-1, N-2, ...3, 2, 1` which is $O({N*(N-1) \over 2})$ = $O(N^2)$

---

## Explanation 4

For each element ofarrayA, the inner for loop goes throughb iterations, where `b = arrayB.length`. lf `a = arrayA.length`,then the runtime is `O(ab)`.

If you said $O(N^2)$, then remember your mistake for the future. It's not $O(N^2)$ because there are two different inputs. Both matter. This is an extremely common mistake.

---

## Explanation 5

Still `O(ab)` as the third loop is constant time. 

---

## Explanation 6

This algorithm runs in `O(N)` time. The fact that it only goes through half of the array (in terms of iterations) does not impact the big O time.

---

## Explanation 7

- If P < $ N \over 2 $,then we know that N is the dominant term so we can drop the `O(P)`
- `O(2N)` is `O(N)` since we drop constants.
- `O(N)` dominates `O(log N)`,so we can drop the `O(log N)`.
- There is no established relationship between N and M, so we have to keep both variables in there.

Therefore,all but the last one are equivalent to `O(N)`.

---

## Explanation 8

Ideally one will say $O(N^2log N)$ - but because of length of array $\ne$ largest string in array, we can't use `N` at all. 

- Let `s` be the length of the longest string.
- Let `a` be the length of the array.

How to come to solution: 
- Sorting each string is O(s log s)
- We have to do this for every string (and there are `a` strings), so that's `O(a*s log s)`
- Now we have to sort all the strings. There are `a` strings,so you'll may be inclined to say that this takes `O(a log a)` time. This is what most candidates would say. You should also take into account that you need to compare the strings. Each string comparison takes `O(s)` time.There are `O(a log a)` comparisons, therefore this will take `O(a*s log a)` time

If you add up these two parts, you get `O(a*s(log a + log s))`

---

## Explanation 9

_Simple_ approach each node of the tree is visited once, so it is `O(N)`.

_Recursion_ approach it is discussed that the runtime of a recursive function with multiple branches is typically $O(branches^{depth})$. There are two branches at each call, so we're looking at $O(2^{depth})$.

What is depth? The tree is a balanced binary search tree. Therefore, if there are `N` total nodes, then depth is roughly $log N$. Which gives us $O(2^{log N})$

Which can be simplified by following steps:
- $P = 2^{log N}$  
- $log_2 P = log_2 N$ 
- $P = N$

Hence $O(N)$ time complexity. 

---

## Explanation 10

The `for` loop will start when i = 2 and end when `x*x = n`. Or,in other words,it stops when $x=\sqrt{n}$ (when x equals the square root of n).

Hence it is $O(\sqrt{n})$

---

## Explanation 11

This is just a straight recursion from n to n-1 to n-2 down to 1.It will take $O(n)$ time.

---

## Explanation 12

Tricky one!
1. Total Permutations of a word with `4` characters goes `4 * 3 * 2 * 1` (how many permutations we have to place the character) which is 4!. Translates to $n!$ for $n$ character word.
2. Now if we consider all permutations as a leaf node of a tree, it travers from the root node till the leaf node, transalating to $n$ calls. 
3. Additionally, printing of the permutation requires each character to be printed which is $O(n)$ + string concatenation is also $O(n)$

Combining the three outputs to $O(2n*n*n!)$ which is equal to $O(n^2*n!)$ (dropping the constant) as the upper bound. 

---

## Explanation 13

With the same concept of $O(branches^{depth})$, we can identify it to be $O(2^n)$

Ideally it is $O(1.6^n)$ mainly because lot of the bottom of the tree there are only ONE call and not TWO as the code shows, resulting in significant difference. 

---

## Explanation 14

Common Mistake - See the outside look & recursion calling it $O(n*2^n)$, which is incorrect.

- fib(1) --> $2^1$ calls
- fib(2) --> $2^2$ calls
- fib(3) --> $2^3$ calls
- ...
- fib(n) ---> $2^n$ calls

so it is $2^1$ + $2^2$ + $2^3$ ... + $2^n$ = $2^{n+1}$.

Hence time complexity is still with horrible algorithm is $O(2^n)$

---

